---
title: "Dev log entry #3"
date: 2022-06-20
---

Last week consisted of a lot of "groundwork". The result is that the game is now hosted on battleflows.com and deployment is quick and easy (during development the site will often times be unavailable though). That way we can quickly test if new features actually work in the browser. Also we have multiple scenes now, so the player can go from "Lobby Scene" to "Game Scene" and then back again once the round finishes. Controls for the camera have been added. Apart from that we also added a lot of features to make the game actually fun to play. This includes a fog of war implementation (see below for details), showing to the player where combat is happening and improving the logic for how movement and combat works. Sea tiles are actually not traversable anymore now. Bases (tiles that produce troops) have been added too but need some improvement. Playing the game revealed a lot of areas where it needs to be improved. One example is when the player gives "cyclical" movement orders (move order from tile 1 to tile 2 when a move order from tile 2 to tile 1 already exists now removes the existing one from 2 to 1). Another big improvement is focused on launching attacks. When a player attacks another tile from just one side, they will initially be heavily outnumbered and take a lot of losses. The player should try to launch an attack from multiple sides. To do this the player can now select the tile they want to attack and then select adjacent units that they want to attack with. This way troops are moved into the attack at once from multiple sides. This feature will be improved in the coming days because the game does not yet clearly show to the player how it works. Sea tiles are currently the only terrain that behaves differently in game, so another plan for this week is to add more terrain features (for example forests will slow down troop movement out of the tile and they block vision to the tiles behind them). A small improvement will be to keep the total flow of troops out a tile independent from the amount of movement orders. Communicating clearly to the player what is happening during combat should also be improved. The game already renders the units with the least amount of troops on top of the ones with more troops, but it should maybe tell the player which side is taking how many losses so that they can understand what is going on (especially when a stalemate ensues from both players having an equal amount of troops and supplies).

After this, writing a single-player tutorial should be helpful to get players to play-test the game to see where they struggle, what works well etc. But for now the focus is still on development and making the game actually fun to play. Once the above features have been implemented, more capacity will become available to build up the HN profile, preparing to release the game on Steam and improving the visuals.

Fog of War details
The game tracks which tiles the player has discovered. For undiscovered tiles the player does not see which type of terrain it is. Once it has been discovered, they will always see the terrain but can only see what is going on in a tile if they have a unit nearby. To discover a tile, on each update cycle the game iterates over all units of a player and determines how "far" they can see based on the troop count in the tile (a full unit sees further than a unit with just a few troops). To determine the range the code from https://www.redblobgames.com/grids/hexagons/#range is used. Before sending the game state to the front end the back end filters out information about the opponents if the player does not see the tiles where the opponents are. By handling the vision on the back end the player can't cheat the vision on the front end side. Downside of the current implementation is that on each update we have to iterate over every unit of every player to determine their vision. During testing the time it takes for this has been fine but this could become a problem for larger games with many players. If it becomes too slow, it can be improved by not calculating it for every unit every time but only calculate it locally when a trigger happened that can change the vision of a player (troop movement, combat etc.).
